Partners: Matt Zhou (czhou06) and Violet McCabe (vmccab01)


Overview:
● An image compressor for PPM images. Employs bitpacking and machine arithmetic to compress a given ppm image. The compressed image is written to stdout.
A decompressor is also made with the corresponding compression protocol, decompressed image also written to stdout.
● Resulting compressed image is ¼ the size of the original image; Decompression maintains high image quality.
● Usage:
compression: ./40image -c [file_name]
decompressions: ./40image -d [compressed_file_name]

Architecture:
- 40image.c
    Provided file containing main

-compress40.c
    File containing our compress40 and decompress40 functions. All helper 
    functions from other files called here

- a2plain.c & uarray2.c 
    Past homework fiiles included for the A2Methods_UArray2 data types 

- DCT.c & DCT.h 
    Interface and implementation for all DCT conversion related functions.
    The functions here are responsible for converting the CV values in the 
    given uncompressed image to mean pb (mpb), mean pr (mpr), a, b, c, and d
    values and the inverse conversion.
    DCT.h is included in all files that use the Pnm_block struct defined here. 

- CVRGB.c & CVRGB.h 
    Interface and implementation for all CV to RGB conversions and related 
    functions. The functions here are responsible for both converting the RGB
    values in the given uncompressed image to y, pb, pr values and 
    the inverse conversions. These functions are responsible for the following
    steps: Floating Point Transformation, RGB to CV transformation, 
    Inverse Floating Point Transformation, and CV to RGB transformation. 
    CVRGB.h is included in all files that use the Pnm_CV struct defined here. 

- bitprep.c & bitprep.h 
    Interface and implementation for all functions that use Bitpacking 
    functions. This header file is essentially bridging the gap between
    Bitpacking.c /Bitpacking.h and our compression functions. The functions
    here use Bitpacking functions to pack provided data and unpack codewords.

- quantization.c & quantization.h 
    Interface and implementation for all quantization and inverse 
    quantization functions. 

- reader.c & reader.h
    Interface and implementation for custom read in and write out 
    functions. readin reads in the codewords provided from compressed
    image file and write out prints the codewords in big endian order.

- bitpack.c
    Implementation for bitpacking functions. Contains helper functions 
    for right and left shifts, fit check fucntions, retrieval functions
    (getu and gets), and new functions (news and newu).

- ppmdiff.c
    Implementation of ppmdiff as detailed in the lab. Gives the percent 
    difference between two files. Used to test the difference between the 
    output of compressing and decompressing an image and the original
    provided image.

- bitpacktesting.c 
    This file was a main used to test individual functions from bitpack.c
    to ensure they worked outside of the context of our compression fucntions. 

Correctly Implemented:
    compress40
    decompress40
    All functionalities have been correctly implemented. 

Hours:
8 hours analysis
28 hours implementation
36 Hours in total


Assistance
We received help from the following TA's:
    - Gustavo
    - Mary Joy
    - Alan
    - Kunal
    - Jeremy 
    - Adam
    - Alec
    - Anne Marie

